Factions
========

Divided across the universe, human kind separated in many organizations
or factions. But, humanity is not alone amongst the stars.

The Colonial Administration
---------------------------

Following the collapse of the United Nations when Earth was lost during
the Phantom crisis, the Colonial Administration previously in charge of
the administration took its place since it was the only government not
affected by the events. Since all the colonies were still under its
charge nothing much changed. With the added powers from the UN which
previously oversaw all the administration's operation, the peace was
kept for a while. Keeping its seat on Terra-Nova, the region around it
developed quickly and became the new Earth, the new center of trade and
a major player in humanity's development.

The collapse of the united nations meant that the colonial
administration had to fill in many parts of the government it didn't
have to control. The CA created the department of defense, which oversaw
the newly formed Colonial Administration Space Command, Colonial
Administration Army and Colonial Administration Navy. There was no need
for any major investments in military since most of the colonies were
peaceful. But following recent events, major investments were made to
renew equipment and increase the army's and navy's numbers. As of now
the Space Command mostly oversees patrol routes and assists in civilian
law enforcement.

### Colonial Administration Space Command

The CA Space Command coordinates with the Army and Navy for all military
and civilian operations. The ensure patrol of all CA colonized space as
well as many frequently used routes by traders.

### Colonial Administration Army

The CA Army is responsible of all ground operations on the ground.
Working tightly with the Navy, they are often deployed for civilian aid
during crises. If the CA is ever to declare war, they would be deployed
on controlled and enemy grounds. In the events of a joint deployment,
the army will overrule the navy on all ground operations.

#### 1st Division

The army 1st division oversees primary defense. They are responsible of
Terra-Nova defense. They patrol the planet looking for any illegal
activities. In the event of a war, they would not be deployed to other
planets, instead focusing on Terra-Nova's defense.

#### 15th Division

The 15th division, also known as Orbital Drop division is consisted of
many regiments that specializes in orbital insertion. Often inserting
behind enemy lines, they would be dropped from a spaceship in low orbit
and then carry on with their missions.

#### 23th Division

The 23rd division is responsible of border patrol. They go from colony
to colony looking for any disturbance, searching for wanted criminals.
In the event of a war they would also be responsible for securing the
forward supply lines.

### Colonial Administration Navy

The navy oversees all spaceship operations. They provide air support for
ground missions as well as ship-to-ship combat. The navy patrols all
colonized space and trade routes ensuring safety and preventing piracy
and any attacks against civilian ships.

#### 1st Fleet

The 1st fleet is responsible of ensuring the defense of all 10 core
systems located in a 20-lightyear radius around Terra-Nova. The first
fleet is a defense fleet composed of destroyers and battleships. The
lack of many carriers is since the fleet ensures a defense role and is
never deployed on the offensive.

#### 2nd Fleet

Deployed all over the galaxy, the 2nd fleet is composed of small battle
groups for reconnaissance missions. Patrolling border space and
gathering intel is the specialty of the 2nd fleet. The fleet is almost
entirely comprised of small recon vessels such as corvettes and stealth
prowlers.

#### 3rd Fleet

The 3rd fleet is responsible for assisting friendly forces currently
deployed. They are capable of fast response in many theaters helping in
ship-to-ship combat. The fleet is mostly comprised of fast corvettes
with offensive capabilities.

#### 4th Fleet

The 4th fleet oversees search and rescue. They respond to distress calls
and scan for survivors after attacks. Their fleet is composed of many
frigates and some carriers, capable of responding to distress calls with
force.

#### 5th Fleet

The 5th fleet is by far the largest fleet in the CASC. They can assist
any other fleets in day to day operations. If there was to be a war, the
5th fleet could be deployed on many theaters and fight many battles.

### Colonial Administration Office of National Intelligence

The office of national intelligence is divided into three sections.
Section one is responsible for counter terrorism and electronic warfare
and protection. Section two is responsible for counter intelligence as
well as intelligence gathering. Section 3 is responsible of top secret
level projects, little is known about what they do.

### Colonial Administration Department of Colonial Affairs

The colonial affairs oversee all civilian matters across all the
colonies. They oversee each colony's government and provides guidelines
to follow.

United Clans
------------

In the years that followed the nuclear apocalypse caused by Phantom,
most of Earth's surface was inhabitable due to high radiation levels. In
many regions, humans survived the radiation, hiding in nuclear bunkers.
In the years following, many regions saw a fast drop in radiation
levels, making the surface habitable again. There were many groups of
people that managed to hide in bunkers across North America. When many
of them got out, all the small communities started meeting each other
while looking out for food and supplies. Some of the encounters were
peaceful, others turned violent. Many groups started creating clans,
protecting themselves in the post-apocalyptic world that was now their
reality. The United-Clans was an attempt at creating peace between the
different clans that span across North America.

Each clan elects a representative to siege at the council in the city of
Tara. These ambassadors then elect the Commander which represents all
the clans and act as a leader. The commander is the one deciding of the
fate of all clans. If the ambassadors lose confidence in the commander,
they can call a vote of non-confidence to replace the current commander.
There are 15 clans that are part of the United Clans, there is at least
another dozen that refused to join, some of them at war with the
alliance.

Federation of Independent Planets
---------------------------------

The federation was founded in 2063 following the rapid expansion of the
colonial administration which was spreading itself too thin and too fast
across the galaxy. The goal of the federation was to regroup planets
under a smaller organization in the goal of making its colonies more
habitable. At first there were not a lot of colonies in the federation,
but by 2100 there were more than 50.

The federation was always pacific from the start, all they wanted to do
was offer an alternative to the Colonial Administration. As such the two
were always on good terms since the start, the federation would take
care of colonies the administration could not sustain due to several
reasons. But the recent attacks by the Next World Alliance is
threatening those relationships. They support the federation in their
crusade towards destabilizing the administration. The federation has not
endorsed their actions, but their current leaders have not condemned
them. This weakened the relation between the colonial administration and
the federation.

The Next World Alliance
-----------------------

The group originated on the outer colonies where a deep hatred for the
colonial administration started developing amongst the colonists. Tired
of being left to fend for themselves they decided to take matter into
their own hands and mount coups against the Colonial Administration.
After the first colonies, many protestors joined, and the protests
turned violent.

At first, the alliance goal was to gain the attention of the colonial
administration about the issues that the outer colonies suffer from. The
alliance claimed that they were representing the outer colonies. As more
people got behind their ideology, the more they started to clash with
the administration. They claimed that more colonies should leave and be
independent or join the federation.

Eventually the protests turned violent as more and more joined their
cause. Many were there to cause trouble. They wanted to send a strong
message to the colonial administration. Some groups were seeing the
protests as a reason to attack the colonies to prove that the
administration was powerless to help them. They attacked many outer
colonies, gaining support from people who want to see the colonial
administration fall.

Lineya
------

Alien race located on the far reaches of the Milky Way. They have
observed the humans from very far, first contact has not occurred so
far. Their civilization is as advanced as humanity, reaching out too
many planets. They did not observe any other specie capable of space
travel in the milky way.

The Lineya are a race of intelligent aliens that live in the milky way.
They are not present in a substantial number and haven't spread their
empire very far. So far, they have not been discovered by humans
travelling all across the galaxy. Considering that only 10% of the
galaxy is discovered by the humans they still haven't been found.

They have observed humanity from a distance, making sure not to be
detected by any ships, they know that the humans are expanding their
border, eventually crossing in their territory. They remain skeptical of
humanity's intention in expanding their borders, that's why they haven't
made first contact yet.

Trader's Alliance
-----------------

Moving cargo around was especially difficult when Earth was lost, not
many trade routes were left. Many space ships owners decided they would
get their share. Many of them started transporting cargo around, from
one colony to another. The Trader's Alliance was created to regulate
cargo shipments. The Trader's Alliance became officially endorsed by the
Colonial Administration.
