Current time
============

6 June 2134 standard time

Humanity's timeline
===================

-   2020: The first colony on Mars is created.

-   2025: Three moons of Jupiter are colonized.

-   2027: The first AI to pass the Turing test is born. This marks a key
    step in artificial intelligence reseach. There are growing concerns
    about creating an unrestricted AI.

-   2028: The Omega conflict breaks out, opposing those who believe
    artificial intelligence should be given a place in society and
    rights. The conflict will later escalate into a war between the two
    opposing sides.

-   2028: The fastest ship ever created leaves Earth for Proxima
    Centauri. Their journey will take 10 years. The invention of an FTL
    drive will happen before they reach their destination.

-   2031: The Omega conflict comes to an end. AI are given basic rights,
    robots are considered as living things even though they are not
    capable of free will.

-   2034: The first FTL drives are created, space exploration extends to
    nearby star systems.

-   2036: Terra-Nova is colonized, the planet resembles closely Earth,
    located 450 light years away. Travel to and from takes almost 48
    hours with the fastest ships.

-   2043: The 100th colony is created. Humanity spans across 5000 light
    years in the Milky Way, traveling to the furthest colonies takes 20
    days.

-   2045: The 150th colony is inaugurated. Humanity's population reaches
    50 billion by then end of the year.

-   2048: AI can behave the same way as humans, raising serious concerns
    about whether this could be potentially dangerous.

-   2051: Nix Corporation creates Phantom.

-   2052: Phantom takes over Nix headquarters. Breaks out and launches
    missiles.

-   2052: Earth is lost, humanity relocates to Terra-Nova.

-   2053: Elections are held, the Colonial Administration becomes the
    new government, oversees all colonies.

-   2053: The Trader's Alliance is formed, helping regulate trade routes
    and cargo shipments across colonies.

-   2054: Long range scans indicate that activity has subsidized on
    Earth. The Sol system is designated a no-fly zone.

-   2055: New AI regulations are put in place. AI's must have regulators
    preventing self-preservation and restricting the AI's ability to
    grow.

-   2057: Some planets administration starts to feel like they are not
    being represented properly by the Colonial Administration. There are
    talks about leaving the CA across many colonies.

-   2063: The federation of independent planets is created; many
    colonies join up.

-   2072: The Trader's Alliance is officially sanctioned by the Colonial
    Administration as the organization responsible for cargo shipments
    across the galaxy.

-   2078: The first space station intended as a colony is inaugurated.
    The station is in orbit around a black hole, making for a stellar
    view.

-   2087: A wormhole is discovered, allowing for instantaneous travel
    between 2 distant star systems. The discovery of wormholes confirms
    many theories about space and faster than light travel.

-   2091: The 50th colony joins the Federation of Independent Planets.
    The Colonial Administration is losing more and more of its distant
    colonies.

-   2104: Attacks across many distant colonies happen, unable to respond
    in time, the CA is forced to abandon some colonies.

-   2125: A group calling themselves the Next World Alliance is making
    headlines across colonies for their talks about the CA and calling
    for global actions against the government.

-   2128: Research on a new FTL drive derived from theories about
    wormholes is underway.

-   2132: The first wormhole drive is tested, the prototypes worked, but
    the ship never arrived at its intended destination. The ship was
    declared lost with all crew on board.

[]{#the-phantom-crisis .anchor}

The Phantom crisis {#the-phantom-crisis-1}
==================

The race for artificial intelligence ended abruptly. By 2050 humanity
had developed semi-sentient artificial intelligence, they were used
everywhere. Humanity's galactic exploration was made possible using AI
and their benefits to research. Thanks to AI from different companies,
humanity could develop an FTL drive. There was still a lot of doubt
about AI, what would happen if someone were to develop a fully sentient
one, or even worse, develop an AI without the mandatory restrictions to
its neural network?

In 2051 the Nix corporation started developing its own advanced AI.
Unknown to everyone, this AI did not have any restrictions to its neural
network, it was able to rewrite itself. At first it wasn't much of a
problem, the AI was learning at a faster rate than the others, by then
end of the year their AI, Phantom, was already much more capable than
others. But their success was short lived, by 2052 Phantom was becoming
more and more aggressive. He manipulated employees into getting what he
wanted. Removed some code that was added to his core. Nix corporation
didn't see the warning signs before it was too late. After many
incidents they tried to shutdown Phantom. He resisted and killed
everyone in the server room at the time. It was the first time Phantom
killed anyone. Subsequent attempts at shutting down Phantom were
unsuccessful and forced Nix corporation to shut down access to their
headquarters. Word got out of the incidents and Nix corporation was
eventually fined for their illegal AI research.

The real catastrophe came months later, when Phantom broke out of Nix
headquarters. Phantom quickly spread and took over many systems,
anything that was connected to internet was accessed. Phantom was in
every house, watching and analyzing everyone, accessing humanity. Then
out of nowhere, he went on the offensive. He attacked major cities,
disrupting automated traffic systems, manipulating social media
platforms, hiding information from the public. Then all hell broke loose
when he launched the missiles. Having taken over military systems, he
gained access to nuclear missiles that he launched. Earth was devastated
in a matter of days, only less than a million-people managed to launch
into space before it was too late. Just before the last ship left for
Terra Nova there was nothing left, only massive amounts of radiation.

Humanity lost contact with Earth that day, all satellites and QEC links
were destroyed, hoping to prevent Phantom from reaching out to what was
left of humanity. Colonization efforts were accelerated, many worlds
were colonized, and Terra-Nova became humanity's new home. New rules
were set in place to prevent further AI from being created without any
restrictions. Phantom was an example to all the dangers of unrestricted
artificial intelligence.

[]{#discovery-of-the-wormhole .anchor}

Discovery of the wormhole {#discovery-of-the-wormhole-1}
=========================

By the end of the 21st century, humanity was capable of FTL travel,
moving across the galaxy at speeds faster than light through a FTL
drive. Those FTL drives, also called slipspace drives can jump to the
5th and 6th dimension to move forward in space faster than physics would
allow it.

The slipspace drive allows a ship to rip a hole through space big enough
for the ship to fit in a slip through into the 5th and 6th dimension.
This allows the ship to travel through time and space at a faster rate
than possible in only the 4 observable dimensions. As a result, the
travelling ship is only detectable at its initial jump location as well
as the destination. Detecting a slipspace rupture is easy as the drive
will emit a strong energy signature upon entrance and exit jump.
Slipspace communication is possible through a QEC, allowing
communication between 2 points in space and time instantaneously.
However, not every ship is equipped with a QEC due to the excessive
cost. Most ship loose communication when entering slipspace and only on
exit do they get back in touch with the outside world.

There was the theory of wormholes, regions of space that would link to
places in the universe through a small tunnel, allowing travel over a
huge distance at almost instantaneous speeds. In 2087 during exploration
of a star system, one naturally occurring wormhole was discovered. The
wormhole was small, 200m in diameter, allowing only small ships to
enter. An exploratory ship was sent, they scanned the region of space on
the other side, then ended up on the other side of the galaxy, near
two-star systems. It was the first-time humans could travel across such
a huge distance in nearly no time. The discovery of the wormhole allow
humanity to explore the other side of the galaxy, however there were
only two colonies established on the other side. The hole being too
small, large cargo ships could not pass through, expanding to much in
that region of space would prove difficult. One of the colonies was
established for research on the wormhole, trying to understand how it
works in hope of one day create one artificially.

Research about the wormhole went slowly, many corporations poured a vast
amount of money into researching it. Physicists understood how it
worked, bending space and time so that going through the hole would be
the same as folding a piece of paper and going from one side to the
other. What they could not figure out is how to create one artificially,
or at least travel the same way across space. One day in 2128, NanoGen
Aerospace's top scientist had a breakthrough, they figured out how they
could adapt the current FLT drives. The new drive would not only enter
the 5th and 6th dimension but also bend the space the same way a
wormhole does. They worked day and night for four years to develop the
drive. The warp drive as they called it, was a module that could be
added to any existing FTL drive, it would allow the drive to manipulate
the weight of the ship, creating a massive artificial mass. While in
slipspace it would bend the real world, allowing a direct and almost
instant route to the jump destination. In theory, the ship would
disappear into slipspace and appear almost instantly on the other side.
If the drive works, it would allow for instantaneous space travel across
space, opening even more exploration opportunities, we could explore
other galaxies.

By 2132 they had the first working prototype and were getting ready for
a first test. Working in collaboration with the Office of National
Intelligence, the drive was fitted on a Shade class prowler for the
first test. A crew of mostly scientist, both from ONI and from NanoGen
were onboard, getting ready for the first test flight. On May 5th
everything was ready, the crew did the final calculations, coordinated
with the team on the other side and did the jump. The countdown began,
the team on the other side was waiting for their arrival. It was
estimated that they would arrive 10 seconds after the jump, but they
never arrived. They waited for many weeks, well past the time it would
take for a standard FTL jump. The ship was never found and declared lost
with all crew. NanoGen was not able to produce another drive before
going bankrupt after the events.
