---
description: An other take on the aurora project, this time set around the events of the old republic.
categories: ['writing']
layout: page
date: 2020-07-23
title: Aurora v2
---

I was born after the fall of both the republic and the sith empire.
Years passed and it didn't take long for a new power to rise and conquer
the galaxy. The Eternal Empire rose to power from the remains of both
and the sith lord Vitiate ruled over the galaxy. However, their reign
didn't last forever, and the Eternal Empire was overthrown years later.
Years of peace for the galaxy as the Alliance lasted for a while.
However, that peace was not going to last. The Alliance eventually split
back into the two factions at its core, the sith empire and the
republic. As everyone expected a new chapter of war to reign on the
galaxy again, we were surprised to see little to no conflict. The empire
fled to the outer rims and left most of the republic space alone. Most
of us suspect something could happen at any moment, however from all our
intelligence sources, nothing is happening, the empire barely exists.

I was raised in an academy training jedis and sith hybrids during the
Eternal Empire era. Since they were the dominant force in the galaxy and
having defeated the jedi order and the sith order, the eternal empire
decided to train force sensitive children's in both aspects of the
force. However, their end goal was to turn them into siths, the perfect
plan set in motion by the sith lord Vitiate. But my training ended
abruptly as the Empire collapsed. As the alliance was formed, ancient
masters of the jedi saw fit to rebuild the order. They were reluctant to
train any of the children that went to the academies in the Eternal
Empire, as we trained in the arts of the dark side as well. After
deliberation and a couple of months, they had gathered the remaining
jedi and with the help of the republic the temple on Coruscant was
rebuilt. They found out that at the academy we wouldn't study the arts
of the dark side before we were 13 years old. This meant that if they
wanted to play safe, they had to find those of us who were younger and
didn't yet learn the arts of the dark side. They officially announced
their intentions, instead of trying to find them, they decided to try to
bring the children to them. Being 14 I would have normally been too old
for them; I did start my training in the arts of the dark side of the
force. I knew that there was more to the force than just the light side
and the dark side, that there was supposed to be a balance between them,
something the jedi were too afraid to even attempt, with reason, many
were corrupted by the dark side of the force.

I decided to give it a chance and try to get recruited anyways. I never
finished my lightsaber; I didn't find a crystal yet. But I decided to
bring it with me anyways. I had to lie about my age, I couldn't get
accepted if I told them I was 14, but I thought I could lie about being
12 and a half. I knew that they could find out I was lying. But I went
ahead anyways and showed up at the temple on Coruscant, and I told them
everything they wanted to hear to take me in. I don't know if they knew
I was lying, but they accepted me anyways. I showed them the lightsaber
I built. I had taken inspiration from multiple sources and my own
fighting style to create my weapon.

The lightsaber resembled a long handle saber when collapsed. I took
inspiration from the training staffs we used and ancient Echani weapons.
The lightsaber hilt could extend from both ends to make a longer staff
with no lightsaber blade. The staff and hilt are lightsaber resistant,
their outer casing built with Mandalorian iron. I was also able to find
some Cortosis to line the staff with small strips of the metal, this
allowed the staff to distort lightsabers that hit it. At both ends of
the staff were the blade emitters, closed the hilt measured 40 cm in
length, and was able to project two blades, making it either a
traditional lightsaber with a long hilt or a double-bladed saber. When
the staff was deployed, it extended the hilt by 50 cm on both sides,
making for a 1m40 staff with the possibility to have lightsaber blades
come out of both ends. I already started training with it, even if I
didn't have a kyber crystal in it, it could still be used as a staff,
that's how I used it.

I was accepted in the order and was assigned a master to complete my
padawan training. Grand master Satele herself decided to train me as she
had a somewhat similar fighting style to me and having mastered the
forms, I based mine upon she saw fit to train me as she saw some
potential in me. We trained for some time, I spent months working on the
different forms of lightsaber combat, using training sabers and my
unfinished one as well. She opened my eyes to some aspects of the force
I wasn't yet fully in control, that I didn't train yet. The more we
trained, the stronger our bond between master and padawan grew. She
talked about her exile, why she left during the times of the eternal
empire, and afterwards the alliance. I was surprised but respected her
decision to leave. Finally, I reached the point in my training where I
had to find a lightsaber crystal. I would have to connect with the force
and find my crystal, the one that talked to me.

For me to leave on my pilgrimage, the order gave me a ship, the Endless
Midnight, a light freighter that could help me travel around the galaxy.
The ship was a model often used by traders and smugglers, it was fast
and agile. It was lightly armed if needed but was in no means a warship.
Having no other use for it, they gave me the ship to use on my
pilgrimage, as well as R4-W1, an astromech droid to help me take care of
the ship.

I took some time to familiarize myself with the ship's controls,
learning the basics of how this one worked as I was familiar with
piloting spaceships. Having learned that from a young age back when I
was at the academy. The ship was rathe easy to fly, it was fast and
responsive as I lifted off the landing pad and flew slowly in the hangar
corridor leading out of the jedi temple. As I exited the temple, I
headed towards Coruscant's orbit as I started thinking about where to
head to start my search. Finding crystals wasn't an easy task, there was
a lot of places where you could encounter them, but finding the right
kyber crystal, the one you have a strong connection with through the
force was something else entirely. I knew of some caves on Dantooine
where some jedis found theirs, but they can form on so many planets, it
was like shooting in the dark. I plotted a course for Dantooine in the
navigation computer and with the help of R4 and engaged the hyperdrive
once the calculations were complete.

After some time in hyperspace, I finally exited at my destination, I was
approaching Dantooine's orbit. I had star charts for the system and all
the major space ports around the planet. However, I did not want to land
in any of the major cities, I would have to travel out quite a bit in
order to maybe find a cave with crystals in it. I knew on the old jedi
temple that was near Khoonda, so I thought I could perhaps start there.
I plotted a course for the settlement of Khoonda, leaving orbit and
heading towards the planet. I tuned in on the frequency of the spaceport
there and asked for permission to land. I heard no answer back, which
was odd. I stayed on course and headed down near the surface to see what
is going on. As I approached the settlement, it became apparent why no
one was responding. The landing pads were full of junk and vegetation,
the settlement was overrun with vegetation, indicating that it was
abandoned for quite some time.

If I were to land, I would have to find another spot. I spotted the
ruins of the old jedi temple in the distance and headed towards it. I
could perhaps find a suitable landing spot in the fields surrounding it.
On the way there I saw one or two farms that seemed in good condition,
someone was probably living there by the looks of it. I found a clearing
in one of the fields around the ruins of the temple and set down my ship
there. There were no signs of anyone living in the surrounding areas,
there used to be some camps by the looks of it but nothing recent. I did
not know where to start looking for a kyber crystal, but I thought the
temple could perhaps hold some information. It had been abandoned since
it was bombarded during the jedi civil war era, left to be scavenged by
whoever entered. I knew there was not a lot of chances I would find
something there; the temple was probably stripped of any relevant
information long ago. But I decided to go anyways, I could always
meditate there and perhaps find something that could help me.

I found an entrance to the old spaceport through the rubble, the outer
wall had collapsed leaving rubble to climb in order to get in. After
climbing through all the rubble, I managed to go over the wall. I found
the courtyard littered with ship pieces that had been rusting over the
decades. The ship had been blown apart when the temple was bombarded.
The ship was unrecognizable, the only thing that was easily visible was
the size, it was of considerable size since big parts of it were
littering the entire courtyard.

Most of the structure of the temple was somewhat still intact, I could
see the pathway at the end of the pad that leads to the center of the
temple. There was a lot of vegetation growing back on the walls, nature
had taken over the temple. I managed to cut through some the vegetation
blocking the access to the inner temple and reach the center of the
temple. There I found multiple trees which were growing in the center of
the enclave, there used to be one before the temple got bombarded, that
tree had died and had since been replace by multiple smaller trees.
There was still impacts from turbolaser fire visible on the walls, there
was a huge chunk of it missing. I found the entrance to the council
chambers, the passage to which was collapsed. There was a giant hole in
the roof of the chamber, light was shining through and it illuminated
the center. I decided to sit down and meditate at that spot. As I
started meditating, I could barely connect with the force at the exact
spot. The connection to the force was somewhat blocked at that spot,
like something left a wound there. As I focussed, I started getting
visions, of things that happened in the past. I saw the remaining jedi
get killed by Darth Treya, in the council chamber. I saw the temple,
before it got destroyed. I saw Revan, who as being retrained by Bastila
and the other members of the council. I also had a vision of the ruins
near the temple, Revan discussing about the map to the star forge buried
within. I saw him rebuild a new lightsaber after having found a kyber
crystal from a cave on Dantooine. I then saw the bombardment of the
temple by the sith then nothing. That is all the force wanted to show
me.

Before leaving the enclave to go see the ruins, I decided to look around
the temple for other clues. I could not find a way into the old
dormitories, but I managed to find a passage to the lower levels. There
I found the library, but it did not contain much, it had been ransacked
and salvaged throughout the years, there were no holocrons left, no
databanks, only some books were still there. The books left after all
this time, were not related at all to the jedi or the sith, just some
common items of no value. I climbed back up through the passage,
returning to the upper levels and finding a way out of the back of
temple. I started my search for the ruins Revan found.

The area outside the temple was completely reclaimed by the local flora.
Plants were growing everywhere, the ancient structure barely visible. I
tried my best to find the areas I saw in my visions, but it would not be
easy, the area didn't look the same now. A lot of the rock formations
had collapsed, and nature was growing back over it. I tried to focus as
much as possible on my visions, stopping to meditate and feel where the
force was trying to guide me.

I wandered into the plains aimlessly for hours before finally stumbling
on something that wasn't a natural formation. There were large obelisks
carved in worn out stone, most of the structure had collapsed and was
eroded by the winds.
