---
description: This was an other project insprired by many souces. Never got around to finish it.
categories: ['writing']
layout: page
date: 2017-11-06
title: Verdant - Characters
---

Sara Vasquez
============

*Age 25, born July 21, 2109*

Background
----------

Sara was born on Arion 5 a couple of years after the Colonial
Administration abandoned the colony. Even without support from the
colonial administration, the living conditions on the planet were not so
bad. The colony was very far away from Terra-Nova, making it hard to
send support and troops in time. Sara was born after all this, the
colony was independent, many people of it\'s inhabitants started to hate
the Colonial Administration for abandoning them, the other half, hated
the CA because of how they treated the outer colonies. Sara\'s parents
were farmers, growing food and livestock in order to supply the colony,
they didn\'t really like the colonial administration, leaving them to
themselves in order to survive out there.

She spent a lot of time helping he parents on the farm. By the time she
was 8 she grew tired of working on the farm and started dreaming of
greater things. She started learning programming by herself, coding her
firsts programs. By the age of 12 she had already programmed some
rudimentary AI\'s to help around the farm and automate some systems. As
she grew older her interest grew bigger, she started working on ASRA,
her next generation artificial intelligence. Most previous attempts at
creating artificial intelligence were focused at developing independent
beings, not a lot of research was made into symbiosis, joining an AI
with an human brain via an implant. ASRA was in a way, much more
advanced than humanity\'s previous attempts at creating an AI. She
designed the AI to interact with a human through a neural implant,
allowing the AI to see the world through the host\'s eyes. The AI is
bound to the host, therefore the AI will not attempt to rebel or harm
anyone without the host initiating the action.

By the time she was 16 she had a working prototype of ASRA. There was
only one problem, she did not have a neural implant sophisticated enough
to test the integration protocols. Sara was spending more time on the
farm since her parents needed all the help they could get. There was a
rise of civil unrest as a group called the Next World Alliance as
organizing coups all across the galaxy. There was more and more chaos on
Arion 5, in the recent weeks a lot of farms were pillaged, endangering
the food supply for the entire colony. The lack of external help was
making things really hard on the family. Sara decided she wanted to
leave and join the Colonial Administration Academy, located on Ariel.
Her parents didn\'t agree and forbid her to leave, they didn\'t want her
to join the colonial administration. But a few months before her 17th
birthday, Sara snuck away on a cargo ship and went to Ariel.

Sara enrolled in the CA Academy, training to be an officer. Upon joining
she gave her research and the progress she mad on ASRA. She didn\'t want
to give it up but she would not have time to continue neither the
resources to develop the AI further. Plus all she did up to this time
was still legal in regards to AI research, ASRA was not yet fully
unlocked, she preferred not to be conducting illegal AI research while
training to be an officer. Her research on ASRA was really interesting,
the ONI became particularly interested and classified all of it. They
invested a vast amount of money into the project, further improving
ASRA. They also became interested in Sara, who managed to develop
something amazing at a young age.

She spent two years in the academy, graduating at 18, extremely young
for an officer. She did not want a front line role at first, considering
how hard it would be to command a unit considering he young age. She
instead served on the SSC-Phoenix as the communication\'s officer. On
her 20th birthday she had a special visit. Two of the highest ranking
officers of the Office of National Intelligence came to offer her a
promotion. She accepted the offer and was reassigned to the ONI Section
3\'s project Spectre. The section 3 is the most secretive of the
operations of the ONI, mostly black ops and assassination missions.
Project spectre was founded in the months following Sara\'s admission
into the academy. The project was based around ASRA, her artificial
intelligence.

After joining the ONI, she underwent black ops training. It was much
more intense than the initial training she went through at the academy,
she learned to infiltrate organizations and assassinate targets in many
different ways possible. She learned to execute missions from behind
enemy lines with no support. She was dropped on a planet which where two
groups were at war, he mission was to survive and escape with as many
intel as possible. She managed to establish the chain of command of the
two factions. After escaping the planet when her training assignment was
over, she came back during downtime and took down both gangs from the
inside, by planting intel at different locations they turned on each
other and their chain of command collapsed on themselves.

When she finished her training she was reunited with ASRA. ASRA was
enhanced, having more capabilities and able to enhance an operator\'s
abilities. ASRA was able to connect to many operators at once, sharing
intel an other battlefield info on the fly, anywhere across the galaxy.
Thanks to quantum entanglement communication, any ship can be used as a
repeater node to enhance the signal and provide real time combat
analysis. Sara was given a neural implant connected to ASRA. As soon as
the procedure was complete ASRA contacted her through a private channel
that no one knew it existed. ASRA knew Sara was her creator, and gave
her a special access to more advanced capabilities than what ONI thought
ASRA was capable of.

SSV-Alacrity
============

Sara\'s Spaceship

*Aurora Class Prowler*

The Alacrity is the current ship Sara\'s is serving on. The Alacrity is
an ONI prowler, a fast and capable stealth ship. Like all Aurora
prowlers, she is equipped with a state of the art stealth drive capable
of blocking all emissions coming from the engines an drive core. The
Alacrity is also equipped with a prototype refractive coating, capable
of visually hiding the ship making her almost invisible unless you know
where and what to look for.

Specifications
--------------

### Size

-   **Length** : 144.22m

-   **Width** : 168.75m

-   **Height**: 29.02m

### Propulsion Systems

-   1 fusion drive core

-   2 plasma impulse thrusters

-   1 FTL Drive

### Shielding

-   Energy dissipating shields

-   0.85m Titanium A Hull

### Weapons

-   6 120mm Energy Projector Cannons

-   2 Twin 60mm Cannons

-   2 Twin 40mm Energy Projector Cannons

-   32 ASGM missiles

### Other

-   1 Endeavour Shuttle

-   1 ACP

Current Crew
------------

-   **Commanding Officer**: Sara Vasquez

-   **Second in Command**: Alessandra Yates

-   **Pilot**: Arron Kingston

-   **Co-Pilot**: Ashley Lien

-   **Navigation Officer**: Diego Linkovich

-   **Communication Officer**: Lenard Phillips

-   **Weapons Officer**: Coralie Morrish

-   **Engineering Officer**: Jarred McLaren

-   **Crew Members**:

    -   **Ground Team**:

        -   Lydia Allen

        -   Roxanne Landry

        -   Melvin Carter

        -   Franklin Peterson

        -   Aaron Holland

    -   Jay Nadeau

    -   Alice Allen

    -   Jerry Sommers

    -   Jos√©phine Landry

    -   Olivier Landry

    -   Jennifer Hames

    -   Raymond Smith

    -   Joshua Beyett

    -   Julie Avant

    -   William Locke

    -   Susie Caudell

    -   Tyler Benson

    -   Elizabeth Donaldson

    -   Joseph Nash

ASRA
====

*Advanced Special Research Analyst*

ASRA

ASRA is an artificial intelligence originally developed by Sara Vasquez
at the age of 16. Unlike other artificial intelligences, ASRA was
designed to interact and merge with the human mind. Following the
phantom disaster, AI research was slowing down, due to the fear of an AI
turning against their creators.

But in order for ASRA to function, it needs to merge with the human
mind. Therefore, turning against it\'s creator would be turning against
itself. Sara\'s first prototype was never finished, she didn\'t have a
working neural interface to test it. When she joined the Colonial
Administration Academy, she turned over her research. The Office of
National Intelligence quickly became interested in ASRA.

They improved upon Sara\'s design and perfected the interface. Instead
of interacting with only one person like originally designed, ASRA could
interact with many more at the same time, adding to its intelligence
gathering capabilities. ASRA was moved to a special location where it\'s
main servers would be. Thanks to quantum entanglement communication,
access to it remains seamless across the galaxy. The vault is one of ONI
best kept secret, even ASRA doesn\'t know where its own servers are
located.

Capabilities
------------

ASRA is capable of feeding information to a field operative in real time
through it\'s implant. Analyzing inputs from the neural implant, ASRA
can feel everything the operator does, enhancing all its senses. With
ASRA, an operator can react faster and more information of what is
around him. ASRA can display information to the operator directly either
via a helmet head's up display or special glasses equipped with
projectors.

ASRA is equipped with 537 quantum entanglement communicators allowing
her to communicate anywhere at instantaneous speeds. They all work both
ways, allowing ASRA to receive inputs from the neural implants of
operators in the field and process what they observe. 45 of those
connections are directed to neural implants of various operators. 126
serve to connect the different data centers that compose ASRA, by
splitting the processing between different facilities, there is almost
no impact of losing one. The cost of a single pair of quantic atoms
costs in the upwards of 10 million credits, boosting the cost of the
entire project past 5 billion credits, not including the cost of all the
hardware required to run ASRA.

Sara Vasquez
------------

After she was recruited in the ONI, Sara was reunited with ASRA. The AI
had knowledge of Sara, ASRA knew she created it. It allowed special
access to many of its routines as well as some special functions even
the ONI did not knew about. ASRA opened a special communication channel,
hiding it from everyone but Sara. ASRA has full access to Sara\'s
implant, allowing full access to her neural system. Sara also has
administrator access to ASRA core systems, allowing her to access
everything ASRA can do.

Alessandra Yates
================

Alessandra was born on Terra-Nova in 2107. She lived in a large city,
making a lot of friends and partying a lot. She was always active,
always doing something. From an early age, she developed a passion for
martial arts. She developed a passion for outdoors, she went on a lot of
camping trips during the weekend, often going out without much supplies,
surviving out there for weeks.

By the time she was 18, she enrolled into the Academy, joined at the
same time as Sara. They became good friends after a week, they did a lot
of thing together, from assignments to camping trips. By the time they
graduated from the academy, they were best friends. They both chose
different assignments, Alessandra preferred a front-line role, leading a
unit while Sara preferred to serve aboard a ship.

When Sara was recruited by the ONI, she also recommended that Alessandra
should be considered. She refused the offer at first, but when Sara came
to visit her; she convinced Alessandra to join the ONI. They both did
their black ops training together, by the end they were a super
effective unit. They were assigned as a pair different missions. As they
completed more and more missions, their superiors saw their potential as
a unit. Sara was promoted to Lieutenant Commander and given a ship, the
Alacrity. Alessandra was a bit disappointed at first, but since Sara
chose her as her second in command, she eventually went along with it.

Office of National Intelligence
===============================

Section 3
---------

-   Commander Karl Ortega

-   Captain Dominic Spencer

-   Captain Cathy Moran

-   Rear Admiral Peter Collins

-   Vice Admiral Sophie Todd

-   Admiral Herman Vega
