ASRA
====

*Advanced Special Research Analyst*

![Asra](media/image1.jpg){width="2.625in" height="2.625in"}

ASRA is an artificial intelligence originally developed by Sara Vasquez
at the age of 16. Unlike other artificial intelligences, ASRA was
designed to interact and merge with the human mind. Following the
phantom disaster, AI research was slowing down, due to the fear of an AI
turning against their creators.

But for ASRA to function, it needs to merge with the human mind.
Therefore, turning against it's creator would be turning against itself.
Sara's first prototype was never finished, she didn't have a working
neural interface to test it. When she joined the Colonial Administration
Academy, she turned over her research. The Office of National
Intelligence quickly became interested in ASRA.

They improved upon Sara's design and perfected the interface. Instead of
interacting with only one person like originally designed, ASRA could
interact with many more at the same time, adding to its intelligence
gathering capabilities. ASRA was moved to a special location where it's
main servers would be. Thanks to quantum entanglement communication,
access to it remains seamless across the galaxy. The vault is one of ONI
best kept secret, even ASRA doesn't know where its own servers are
located.

Capabilities
------------

ASRA is capable of feeding information to a field operative in real time
through it's implant. Analyzing inputs from the neural implant, ASRA can
feel everything the operator does, enhancing all its senses. With ASRA,
an operator can react faster and more information of what is around him.
ASRA can display information to the operator directly either via a
helmet headâ€™s up display or special glasses equipped with projectors.

ASRA is equipped with 537 quantum entanglement communicators allowing
her to communicate anywhere at instantaneous speeds. They all work both
ways, allowing ASRA to receive inputs from the neural implants of
operators in the field and process what they observe. 45 of those
connections are directed to neural implants of various operators. 126
serve to connect the different data centers that compose ASRA, by
splitting the processing between different facilities, there is almost
no impact of losing one. The cost of a single pair of quantic atoms
costs in the upwards of 10 million credits, boosting the cost of the
entire project past 5 billion credits, not including the cost of all the
hardware required to run ASRA.

Sara Vasquez
------------

After she was recruited in the ONI, Sara was reunited with ASRA. The AI
had knowledge of Sara, ASRA knew she created it. It allowed exclusive
access to many of its routines as well as some special functions even
the ONI did not know about. ASRA opened a special communication channel,
hiding it from everyone but Sara. ASRA has full access to Sara's
implant, allowing full access to her neural system. Sara also has
administrator access to ASRA core systems, allowing her to access
everything ASRA can do.
