---
published: false
layout: post
title: Verdant - Context
blog: true
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

Context set for the story of that project, never got around to it. That's a trend with most of my projects.

<!--more-->

Current time
============

6 June 2134 standard time

Humanity\'s timeline
====================

-   2020: The first colony on Mars is created.

-   2025: Three moons of Jupiter are colonized.

-   2027: The first AI to pass the Turing test is born. This marks an
    important step in artificial intelligence. There are growing
    concerns about creating an unrestricted AI.

-   2028: The Omega conflict breaks out, opposing those who believe
    artificial intelligence should be given a place in society and
    rights. The conflict will later escalate into a war between the two
    opposing sides.

-   2028: The fastest ship ever created leaves Earth for Proxima
    Centauri. Their journey will take 10 years. The invention of an FTL
    drive will happen before they reach their destination.

-   2031: The Omega conflict comes to an end. AI are given basic rights,
    robots are considered as living things even though they are not
    capable of free will.

-   2034: The first FTL drives are created, space exploration extends to
    nearby star systems.

-   2036: Terra-Nova is colonized, the planet resembles closely Earth,
    located 450 light years away. Travel to and from takes almost 48
    hours with the fastest ships.

-   2043: The 100th colony is created. Humanity spans across 5000 light
    years in the Milky Way, traveling to the furthest colonies takes 20
    days.

-   2045: The 150th colony is inaugurated. Humanity\'s population
    reaches 50 billion by then end of the year.

-   2048: AI are capable of behaving the same way as humans, raising
    serious concerns about whether or not this could be potentially
    dangerous.

-   2051: Nix Corporation creates Phantom.

-   2052: Phantom takes over Nix headquarters. Breaks out and launches
    missiles.

-   2052: Earth is lost, humanity relocates to Terra-Nova.

-   2053: Elections are held, the Colonial Administration becomes the
    new government, oversees all colonies.

-   2053: The Trader\'s Alliance is formed, helping regulate trade
    routes and cargo shipments across colonies.

-   2054: Long range scans indicate that activity has subsidized on
    Earth. The Sol system is designated a no-fly zone.

-   2055: New AI regulations are put in place. AI\'s must have
    regulators preventing self-preservation and restricting the AI\'s
    ability to grow.

-   2057: Some planets administration starts to feel like they are not
    being represented properly by the Colonial Administration. There are
    talks about leaving the CA across many colonies.

-   2063: The federation of independent planets is created; many
    colonies join up.

-   2072: The Trader\'s Alliance is officially sanctioned by the
    Colonial Administration as the organization responsible for cargo
    shipments across the galaxy.

-   2078: The first space station intended as a colony is inaugurated.
    The station is in orbit around a black hole, making for a stellar
    view.

-   2087: A wormhole is discovered, allowing for instantaneous travel
    between 2 distant star systems. The discovery of wormholes confirms
    many theories about space and faster than light travel.

-   2091: The 50th colony joins the Federation of Independent Planets.
    The Colonial Administration is losing more and more of its distant
    colonies.

-   2104: Attacks across many distant colonies happen, unable to respond
    in time, the CA is forced to abandon some colonies.

-   2125: A group calling themselves the Next World Alliance is making
    headlines across colonies for their talks about the CA and calling
    for global actions against the government.

-   2128: Research on a new FTL drive derived from theories about
    wormholes is underway.

-   2132: The first wormhole drive is tested, the prototypes worked, but
    the ship never arrived at it\'s intended destination. The ship was
    declared lost with all crew on board.

*Work in progress.*

The Phantom crisis
==================

The race for artificial intelligence ended abruptly. By 2050 humanity
had developed semi-sentient artificial intelligence, they were used
everywhere. Humanity\'s galactic exploration was made possible using AI
and their benefits to research. Thanks to AI from different companies,
humanity could develop an FTL drive. There was still a lot of doubt
about AI, what would happen if someone were to develop a fully sentient
one, or even worse, develop an AI without the mandatory restrictions to
its neural network?

In 2051 the Nix corporation started developing its own advanced AI.
Unknown to everyone, this AI did not have any restrictions to its neural
network, it was able to rewrite itself. At first it wasn\'t much of a
problem, the AI was learning at a faster rate than the others, by then
end of the year their AI, Phantom, was already much more capable than
others. But their success was short lived, by 2052 Phantom was becoming
more and more aggressive. He manipulated employees into getting what he
wanted. Removed some code that was added to his core. Nix corporation
didn\'t see the warning signs before it was to late. After many
incidents they tried to shutdown Phantom. He resisted and killed
everyone in the server room at the time. It was the first time Phantom
killed anyone. Subsequent attempts at shutting down Phantom were
unsuccessful and forced Nix corporation to shut down access to their
headquarters. Word got out of the incidents and Nix corporation was
eventually fined for their illegal AI research.

The real catastrophe came months later, when Phantom broke out of Nix
headquarters. Phantom quickly spread and took over many systems,
anything that was connected to internet was accessed. Phantom was in
every house, watching and analyzing everyone, accessing the human race.
Then out of nowhere, he went on the offensive. He attacked major cities,
disrupting automated traffic systems, manipulating social media
platforms, hiding information from the public. Then all hell broke loose
when he launched the missiles. Having taken over military systems, he
gained access to nuclear missiles that he launched. Earth was devastated
in a matter of days, only less than a million-people managed to launch
into space before it was too late. Just before the last ship left for
Terra Nova there was nothing left, only massive amounts of radiation.

Humanity lost contact with Earth that day, all satellites and QEC links
were destroyed, hoping to prevent Phantom from reaching out to what was
left of the human race. Colonization efforts were accelerated, many
worlds were colonized, and Terra-Nova became humanity\'s new home. New
rules were set in place to prevent further AI from being created without
any restrictions. Phantom was an example to all the dangers of
unrestricted artificial intelligence.

Discovery of the wormhole
=========================

By the end of the 21st century, humanity was capable of FTL travel,
moving across the galaxy at speeds faster than light through a FTL
drive. Those FTL drives, also called slipspace drives can jump to the
5th and 6th dimension to move forward in space faster than physics would
allow it.

The slipspace drive allows a ship to rip a hole through space big enough
for the ship to fit in a slip through into the 5th and 6th dimension.
This allows the ship to travel through time and space at a faster rate
than possible in only the 4 observable dimensions. As a result, the
travelling ship is only detectable at it\'s initial jump location as
well as the destination. Detecting a slipspace rupture is easy as the
drive will emit a strong energy signature upon entrance and exit jump.
Slipspace communication is possible through a QEC, allowing
communication between 2 points in space and time instantaneously.
However, not every ship is equipped with a QEC due to the excessive
cost. Most ship loose communication when entering slipspace and only on
exit do they get back in touch with the outside world.

There was the theory of wormholes, regions of space that would link to
places in the universe through a small tunnel, allowing travel over a
huge distance at almost instantaneous speeds. In 2087 during exploration
of a star system, one naturally occurring wormhole was discovered. The
wormhole was small, 200m in diameter, allowing only small ships to
enter. An exploratory ship was sent, they scanned the region of space on
the other side, then ended up on the other side of the galaxy, near
two-star systems. It was the first-time humans could travel across such
a huge distance in nearly no time. The discovery of the wormhole allow
humanity to explore the other side of the galaxy, however there were
only two colonies established on the other side. The hole being too
small, large cargo ships could not pass through, expanding to much in
that region of space would prove difficult. One of the colonies was
established for research on the wormhole, trying to understand how it
works in hope of one day create one artificially.

Research about the wormhole went slowly, many corporations poured a vast
amount of money into researching it. Physicists understood how it
worked, bending space and time so that going through the hole would be
the same as folding a piece of paper and going from one side to the
other. What they could not figure out is how to create one artificially,
or at least travel the same way across space. One day in 2128, NanoGen
Aerospace\'s top scientist had a breakthrough, they figured out how they
could adapt the current FLT drives. The new drive would not only enter
the 5th and 6th dimension but also bend the space the same way a
wormhole does. They worked day and night for four years to develop the
drive. The warp drive as they called it, was a module that could be
added to any existing FTL drive, it would allow the drive to manipulate
the weight of the ship, creating a massive artificial mass. While in
slipspace it would bend the real world, allowing a direct and almost
instant route to the jump destination. In theory, the ship would
disappear into slipspace and appear almost instantly on the other side.
If the drive works, it would allow for instantaneous space travel across
space, opening even more exploration opportunities, we could explore
other galaxies.

By 2132 they had the first working prototype and were getting ready for
a first test. Working in collaboration with the Office of National
Intelligence, the drive was fitted on a Shade class prowler for the
first test. A crew of mostly scientist, both from ONI and from NanoGen
were onboard, getting ready for the first test flight. On May 5th
everything was ready, the crew did the final calculations, coordinated
with the team on the other side and did the jump. The countdown began,
the team on the other side was waiting for their arrival. It was
estimated that they would arrive 10 seconds after the jump, but they
never arrived. They waited for many weeks, well past the time it would
take for a standard FTL jump. The ship was never found and declared lost
with all crew. NanoGen was not able to produce another drive before
going bankrupt after the events.

Factions
========

Divided across the universe, human kind separated in many organizations
or factions. But, humanity is not alone amongst the stars.

The Colonial Administration
---------------------------

Following the collapse of the United Nations when Earth was lost during
the Phantom crisis, the Colonial Administration previously in charge of
the administration took it\'s place since it was the only government not
affected by the events. Since all the colonies were still under its
charge nothing much changed. With the added powers from the UN which
previously oversaw all the administration\'s operation, the peace was
kept for a while. Keeping it\'s seat on Terra-Nova, the region around it
developed quickly and became the new Earth, the new center of trade and
a major player in humanity\'s development.

The collapse of the united nations meant that the colonial
administration had to fill in many parts of the government it didn\'t
have to control. The CA created the department of defense, which was in
charge of the newly formed Colonial Administration Space Command,
Colonial Administration Army and Colonial Administration Navy. There was
no need for any major investments in military since most of the colonies
were peaceful. But following recent events, major investments were made
to renew equipment and increase the army\'s and navy\'s numbers. As of
now the Space Command mostly oversees patrol routes and assists in
civilian law enforcement.

### Colonial Administration Space Command

The CA Space Command coordinates with the Army and Navy for all military
and civilian operations. The ensure patrol of all CA colonized space as
well as many frequently used routes by traders.

### Colonial Administration Army

The CA Army is responsible of all ground operations on the ground.
Working tightly with the Navy, they are often deployed for civilian aid
during crises. If the CA is ever to declare war, they would be deployed
on controlled and enemy grounds. In the events of a joint deployment,
the army will overrule the navy on all ground operations.

#### 1st Division

The army 1st division oversees primary defense. They are responsible of
Terra-Nova defense. They patrol the planet looking for any illegal
activities. In the event of a war, they would not be deployed to other
planets, instead focusing on Terra-Nova\'s defense.

#### 15th Division

The 15th division, also known as Orbital Drop division is consisted of
many regiments that specializes in orbital insertion. Often inserting
behind enemy lines, they would be dropped from a spaceship in low orbit
and then carry on with their missions.

#### 23th Division

The 23rd division is responsible of border patrol. They go from colony
to colony looking for any disturbance, searching for wanted criminals.
In the event of a war they would also be responsible for securing the
forward supply lines.

### Colonial Administration Navy

The navy is in charge of all spaceship operations. They provide air
support for ground missions as well as ship-to-ship combat. The navy
patrols all colonized space and trade routes ensuring safety and
preventing piracy and any attacks against civilian ships.

#### 1st Fleet

The 1st fleet is responsible of ensuring the defense of all 10 core
systems located in a 20-lightyear radius around Terra-Nova. The first
fleet is a defense fleet composed of destroyers and battleships. The
lack of many carriers is since the fleet ensures a defense role and is
never deployed on the offensive.

#### 2nd Fleet

Deployed all over the galaxy, the 2nd fleet is composed of small battle
groups for reconnaissance missions. Patrolling border space and
gathering intel is the specialty of the 2nd fleet. The fleet is almost
entirely comprised of small recon vessels such as corvettes and stealth
prowlers.

#### 3rd Fleet

The 3rd fleet is responsible for assisting friendly forces currently
deployed. They are capable of fast response in many theaters helping in
ship-to-ship combat. The fleet is mostly comprised of fast corvettes
with offensive capabilities.

#### 4th Fleet

The 4th fleet oversees search and rescue. They respond to distress calls
and scan for survivors after attacks. Their fleet is composed of many
frigates and some carriers, capable of responding to distress calls with
force.

#### 5th Fleet

The 5th fleet is by far the largest fleet in the CASC. They can assist
any other fleets in day to day operations. If there was to be a war, the
5th fleet could be deployed on many theaters and fight many battles.

### Colonial Administration Office of National Intelligence

The office of national intelligence is divided into three sections.
Section one is responsible for counter terrorism and electronic warfare
and protection. Section two is responsible for counter intelligence as
well as intelligence gathering. Section 3 is responsible of top secret
level projects, little is known about what they do.

### Colonial Administration Department of Colonial Affairs

The colonial affairs oversee all civilian matters across all the
colonies. They oversee each colony\'s government and provides guidelines
to follow.

United Clans
------------

In the years that followed the nuclear apocalypse caused by Phantom,
most of Earth\'s surface was inhabitable due to high radiation levels.
In many regions, humans survived the radiation, hiding in nuclear
bunkers. In the years following, many regions saw a fas drop in
radiation levels, making the surface habitable again. There were many
groups of people that managed to hide in bunkers all across North
America. When many of them got out, all the small communities started
meeting each other while looking out for food and supplies. Some of the
encounters were peaceful, others turned violent. Many groups started
creating clans, protecting themselves in the post-apocalyptic world that
was now their reality. The United-Clans was an attempt at creating peace
between the different clans that span across north america.

Each clan elects a representative to siege at the council in the city of
Tara. These ambassadors then elect the Commander which represents all
the clans and act as a leader. The commander is the one deciding of the
fate of all clans. If the ambassadors lose confidence in the commander,
they can call a vote of non-confidence to replace the current commander.
There are 15 clans that are part of the United Clans, there is at least
another dozen that refused to join, some of them at war with the
alliance.

Federation of Independent Planets
---------------------------------

The federation was founded in 2063 following the rapid expansion of the
colonial administration which was spreading itself too thin and too fast
across the galaxy. The goal of the federation was to regroup planets
under a smaller organization in the goal of making it\'s colonies more
habitable. At first there were not a lot of colonies in the federation,
but by 2100 there were more than 50.

The federation was always pacific from the start, all they wanted to do
was offer an alternative to the Colonial Administration. As such the two
were always on good terms since the start, the federation would take
care of colonies the administration could not sustain due to different
reasons. But the recent attacks by the Next World Alliance is
threatening those relationships. They support the federation in their
crusade towards destabilizing the administration. The federation has not
endorsed their actions, but their current leaders have not condemned
them. This weakened the relation between the colonial administration and
the federation.

The Next World Alliance
-----------------------

The group originated on the outer colonies where a deep hatred for the
colonial administration started developing amongst the colonists. Tired
of being left to fend for themselves they decided to take matter into
their own hands and mount coups against the Colonial Administration.
After the first colonies, many protestors joined, and the protests
turned violent.

At first, the alliance goal was to gain the attention of the colonial
administration about the issues that the outer colonies suffer from. The
alliance claimed that they were representing the outer colonies. As more
people got behind their ideology, the more they started to clash with
the administration. They claimed that more colonies should leave and be
independent or join the federation.

Eventually the protests turned violent as more an more joined their
cause. Many were there to cause trouble. They wanted to send a strong
message to the colonial administration. Some groups were seeing the
protests as a reason to attack the colonies to prove that the
administration was powerless to help them. They attacked many outer
colonies, gaining support from people who want to see the colonial
administration fall.

Lineya
------

Alien race located on the far reaches of the Milky Way. They have
observed the humans from very far, first contact has not occurred so
far. Their civilization is as advanced as humanity, reaching out to many
planets. They did not observe any other specie capable of space travel
in the milky way.

The Lineya are a race of intelligent aliens that live in the milky way.
They are not present in a substantial number and haven\'t spread their
empire very far. So far they have not been discovered by humans
travelling all across the galaxy. Considering that only 10% of the
galaxy is discovered by the humans they still haven\'t been found.

They have observed humanity from a distance, making sure not to be
detected by any ships, they know that the humans are expanding their
border, eventually crossing in their territory. They remain skeptical of
humanity\'s intention in expanding their borders, that\'s why they
haven\'t made first contact yet.

Trader\'s Alliance
------------------

Moving cargo around was especially difficult when Earth was lost, not
many trade routes were left. Many space ships owners decided they would
get their share. Many of them started transporting cargo around, from
one colony to another. The Trader\'s Alliance was created to regulate
cargo shipments. The Trader\'s Alliance became officially endorsed by
the Colonial Administration.

*Work in progress.*

CA - Spaceships
===============

Here is a list of the most common ships in the Colonial Administration
Space Command\'s arsenal. Note that this list is not complete, some
older models are not included as well as less common classes of
spaceships. Some classified projects are included but with few details,
top secret projects are not on this list.

Carriers
--------

Carriers have a designation of SSC, example SSC-Phoenix, the first of
the Phoenix Class carriers. They are big spaceship equipped with
moderate arsenal. The key role of the carriers is to transport other
spaceships not capable of FTL travel. Depending of their size, they can
carry their entire escort fleet.

### Phoenix Class Carrier

![](media/image1.jpg){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="2.8558475503062115in"}

-   **Length**: 1518m

-   **Width**: 373m

-   **Height**: 536m

### Valiant Class Carrier

![](media/image2.jpg){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="2.8510411198600174in"}

-   **Length**: 2500m

-   **Width**: 800m

-   **Height**: 784m

Cruisers
--------

Colonial Administration\'s cruisers have the designation SC. Cruisers
are big and heavily armored and equipped for combat. They often operate
alone or escorted by frigates. They are also deployed as escort for
carrier groups if required.

### Ishimura Class Cruiser

![](media/image3.png){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="2.7172845581802276in"}

-   **Length**: 1425m

-   **Width**: 383m

-   **Height**: 431m

### Aries Class Cruiser

![](media/image4.png){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="3.2407403762029747in"}

-   **Length**: 1192m

-   **Width**: 293m

-   **Height**: 375m

### Leviathan Class Cruiser

![](media/image5.png){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="3.0978258967629047in"}

-   **Length**: 875m

-   **Width**: 412m

-   **Height**: 324m

Destroyers
----------

Designated SFH, destroyers are heavily armored small frigates. They
usually have twice as thick armor as standard frigates and carry an
enhanced arsenal. They are agile in combat and pack a good punch, they
compose most of the battle fleets.

### Bastion Class Destroyer

![](media/image6.png){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="1.7203772965879265in"}

-   **Length**: 485m

-   **Width**: 168m

-   **Height**: 149m

### Nexus Class Destroyer

![](media/image7.png){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="2.0152646544181976in"}

-   **Length**: 624m

-   **Width**: 245m

-   **Height**: 202m

### Trafalgar Class Destroyer

![](media/image8.jpg){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="3.6458333333333335in"}

-   **Length**: 712m

-   **Width**: 269m

-   **Height**: 142m

Frigates
--------

Designation SFF, frigates are medium sized ships capable of cargo and
troop transport and limited ship to ship combat. Frigates are mostly
used to transport equipment and troops planet side.

### Orion Class Frigate

![](media/image9.png){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="1.4993482064741908in"}

-   **Length**: 478m

-   **Width**: 151.88m

-   **Height**: 112.39m

### Arizona Class Frigate

![](media/image10.png){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="2.2900382764654417in"}

-   **Length**: 489.71m

-   **Width**: 155.58m

-   **Height**: 139.20m

### Defiance Class Frigate

![](media/image11.jpg){width="5.760416666666667in"
height="2.7777777777777777in"}

-   **Length**: 535.05m

-   **Width**: 198.88m

-   **Height**: 162.08m

Corvettes
---------

Designation SSC, corvettes are small ships that can serve many roles.
They serve as large shuttles for ship to ship transport. Some corvettes
have been adapted to be used as bombers, escorting fighters in ship to
ship combat.

### Elysium Class Corvette

![](media/image12.jpg){width="4.166666666666667in"
height="2.7777777777777777in"}

-   **Length**: 192m

-   **Width**: 128m

-   **Height**: 65m

### Dragonfly Class Corvette

![](media/image13.png){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="1.8624201662292212in"}

-   **Length**: 285m

-   **Width**: 106m

-   **Height**: 45m

### Intrepid Class Corvette

![](media/image14.jpg){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="3.282869641294838in"}

-   **Length**: 184.22m

-   **Width**: 128.75m

-   **Height**: 49.02m

Prowlers
--------

Designation SSV, prowlers are like corvettes, but they are equipped for
reconnaissance and electronic warfare. They are equipped with stealth
drives, sophisticated radar systems, and radar and system disruptors.

### Shade Class Prowler

![](media/image15.jpg){width="4.166666666666667in"
height="2.7777777777777777in"}

-   **Length**: 244.22m

-   **Width**: 67.75m

-   **Height**: 29.02m

### Aurora Class Prowler

![](media/image16.jpg){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="2.3515616797900263in"}

-   **Length**: 144.22m

-   **Width**: 168.75m

-   **Height**: 29.02m

### Raven Class Prowler

![](media/image17.jpg){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="2.488280839895013in"}

-   **Length**: 174.22m

-   **Width**: 168.75m

-   **Height**: 24m

Fighters
--------

Designation SF, fighters are small ships equipped with limited weaponry.
They are used for ship to ship combat and ground attacks.

### Unknown Class

![](media/image18.jpg){width="5.833333333333333in"
height="3.08215113735783in"}

Other
-----

Other ships used by the colonial administration have the standard space
ship designation SS. They are mostly repurposed civilian ships.

CA - Vehicles
=============

Here is a list of CA land and sea vehicles. Note that classified
projects may not be entirely described, and top-secret projects aren\'t
included.

Tanks
-----

Infantry Fighting Vehicle
-------------------------

Armored Personnel Vehicle
-------------------------

Transport Vehicles
------------------

Aircraft Carrier
----------------

Battleship
----------

Destroyers
----------

Escort Vessels
--------------

Transport Boats
---------------
