---
published: true
layout: post
blog: true
title: Mass Effect Heleus - Plan
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

This project was supposed to be a story set in the mass effect universe around the time of mass effect andromeda, set in the milky way and going out on a second expedition to the heleus cluster.

However the project never got out of the planning phase.

<!--more-->

Story plan
----------

~~In 2819 the Andromeda Initiative vessel Hyperion reached the Helius
Cluster.~~

~~In 2827, a new prototype mass relay begins construction, the relay
doesn't need a destination relay to exit, only a special mass effect
drive.~~

After some tests, in 2831, the Alacrity, a Normandy SR-4 class vessel is
sent out to the andromeda galaxy in order to establish contact. The crew
volunteered on what is most likely a one-way trip. Plans are set in
motion to send vessels to assemble a relay in the andromeda galaxy
should they establish contact.

Communication beacons are sent months in advance at intervals between
andromeda and the milky way for communications to be possible. This is a
backup system since the Alacrity is equipped with a QEC communicator
with a node on the citadel in the mission control. This allows for
instant communication with the ship no matter where it is in the
universe, in theory.

On July 16, 2831, the SSV-Alacrity departs the citadel and heads for the
prototype relay. They initiate the connection to the relay and engage
the blink drive.

They arrive at their destination almost instantly, exactly how the
relays used to work; the ship shuts down due to an electrical surge upon
exit from the relay channel.

Prologue
========

During the last Reaper invasion, survival of many species was at risk.
The reapers were gaining grounds rapidly in the galaxy as they invaded.
But years prior to the invasion, Shepard tried to warn everyone of what
was coming. After having encountered Sovereign, he knew of the threat
that the Reapers posed. However, no one listened.

Except for Jien Garson who founded the Andromeda Initiative in 2176 in
order to explore the Andromeda galaxy. Soon after the failed attack on
the citadel by Sovereign, the initiative also took on a new role, find a
new home for all living species in the galaxy if the Reapers win.

In 2819 the Andromeda Initiative vessel Hyperion arrived in the Heleus
Cluster, sometime after the other vessels as well as the Nexus. The
events that occurred afterwards are unknow to anyone in the Milky Way
since there hasn't been any communication back from the beacons they set
in route. As far as everyone is concerned, the Andromeda Initiative
success is unknown.

In 2827 as the effort to rebuild the Mass Relay network came to an end,
a new project was started. Scientists had the idea to create a new
method of transit that didn't require a destination relay as the system
previously worked. The idea of the new mass effect drive, nicknamed the
blink drive, would allow a ship to enter the relay and exit at any
destination of its choosing requiring only an exit coordinate. The
combination of relay and drive could in theory have increased range
compared to the standard relays, allowing for exploration of previously
uncharted sectors of the galaxy and beyond.

As development of the blink drive and modified relay advanced, it was
discovered that the range of the mass effect drive was far beyond what
was previously imagined. A ship could technically travel all the way to
the Andromeda galaxy. In 2828, the citadel council authorized a special
mission that could end in a one-way trip to the Andromeda galaxy. They
commissioned the SSV-Alacrity, a newly built Normandy SR-4 vessel to be
outfitted with the blink drive and sent on a reconnaissance mission to
the Heleus cluster, where it is believed the Andromeda Initiative
settled.

Chapter 1
=========

Final preparations
------------------

Everything was running smoothly; the blink drive's final calibrations
were underway. The SSV-Alacrity could soon leave the dock it's been
sitting on for the last few months while it undergone retrofits for the
spectre mission. Sarah Vasquez was the spectre in charge of the special
project and the future mission to Andromeda, dubbed Artemis. The entire
mission was a venture into the unknown, following in the footsteps of
the Andromeda Initiative, however there weren\'t any footsteps to
follow. Contact was lost with the Initiative during the Reaper war, the
only thing we have is the available data left behind, on the multiple
destinations, the seven habitats selected.

But from the current observations, things have changed drastically in
the Heleus cluster since the observations taken before the launch of the
initiative. The chosen golden worlds didn't look so good anymore,
something had happened.

The Artemis mission was almost guaranteed to be a one-way trip. The idea
was to send a reconnaissance ship in the Heleus cluster of the Andromeda
galaxy to do some initial reconnaissance and then send the sister relay
of the prototype using another blink drive. The mass relay would need to
be deactivated to remove it from its anchor point in space. It would
then be sent through the relay using the blink drive and rejoin the
reconnaissance ship in the Andromeda galaxy. The play relied on a lot of
things going right, tests were done prior to the final preparations,
some aspects of the mission were tested.

Tests to move a mass relay were done, they proved successful in moving a
mass relay using another one with a standard mass effect drive. It was
feasible to move those giant structures that seemed immovable. Tests
were done on the blink drive, it was proven to work, allowing a research
ship to jump to a destination without any relays.

The new relays and blink drive were the culmination in design taken from
the Reapers and the races that came before. Rebuilding the network of
mass relays took centuries for the many races across the galaxy, as the
technology was far more advanced than what was produced at the time. But
the different races of the galaxy united together and manage to rebuild
the network. In the process they learned how the relays were built, how
they worked, and most importantly, how to improve on the design.
Removing the need for a destination relay was the primary goal of the
blink drive. In the process of doing so, creating a new relay type and a
new mass effect drive, they managed to increase the range drastically.
As they discovered 3 years ago in 2828, the relay could have a range of
millions of light years away, allowing for travel to other galaxies.

The retrofits done to the SSV-Alacrity mainly consisted of replacing the
mass effect drive for the experimental blink drive. The ship was also
outfitted with a QEC, a quantum entanglement communicator. The QEC would
allow for instantaneous communication with the paired receiver wherever
the ship is in the universe. As a backup, two pairs were installed, the
primary one for communication with mission control on the citadel and a
backup node on Arcturus station for contacting the Alliance. This
retrofit was expensive since the QEC pairs were not easy to come by. But
it was deemed the most reliable way of communication between the Milky
Way and Andromeda, as there was no other possible way feasible for the
near future. The ship was also outfitted with state-of-the-art stealth
technology, the next generation of PHALAX cannons and cutting-edge
weaponry should it come in handy.

