Sara Vasquez
============

![](media/image1.jpeg){width="6.0in" height="2.9118055555555555in"}

*Age 25, born July 21, 2109*

Background
----------

Sara was born on Arion 5 a couple of years after the Colonial
Administration abandoned the colony. Even without support from the
colonial administration, the living conditions on the planet were not so
bad. The colony was very far away from Terra-Nova, making it hard to
send support and troops in time. Sara was born after all this, the
colony was independent, many people of it's inhabitants started to hate
the Colonial Administration for abandoning them, the other half, hated
the CA because of how they treated the outer colonies. Sara's parents
were farmers, growing food and livestock to supply the colony, they
didn't really like the colonial administration, leaving them to
themselves to survive out there.

She spent a lot of time helping he parents on the farm. By the time she
was 8 she grew tired of working on the farm and started dreaming of
greater things. She started learning programming by herself, coding her
firsts programs. By the age of 12 she had already programmed some
rudimentary AI's to help around the farm and automate some systems. As
she grew older her interest grew bigger, she started working on ASRA,
her next generation artificial intelligence. Most previous attempts at
creating artificial intelligence were focused at developing independent
beings, not a lot of research was made into symbiosis, joining an AI
with an human brain via an implant. ASRA was in a way, much more
advanced than humanity's previous attempts at creating an AI. She
designed the AI to interact with a human through a neural implant,
allowing the AI to see the world through the host's eyes. The AI is
bound to the host; therefore, the AI will not attempt to rebel or harm
anyone without the host initiating the action.

By the time she was 16 she had a working prototype of ASRA. There was
only one problem, she did not have a neural implant sophisticated enough
to test the integration protocols. Sara was spending more time on the
farm since her parents needed all the help they could get. There was a
rise of civil unrest as a group called the Next World Alliance as
organizing coups across the galaxy. There was more and more chaos on
Arion 5, in the recent weeks a lot of farms were pillaged, endangering
the food supply for the entire colony. The lack of external help was
making things hard on the family. Sara decided she wanted to leave and
join the Colonial Administration Academy, located on Ariel. Her parents
didn't agree and forbid her to leave, they didn't want her to join the
colonial administration. But a few months before her 17th birthday, Sara
snuck away on a cargo ship and went to Ariel.

Sara enrolled in the CA Academy, training to be an officer. Upon joining
she gave her research and the progress she mad on ASRA. She didn't want
to give it up, but she would not have time to continue neither the
resources to develop the AI further. Plus, all she did up to this time
was still legal regarding AI research, ASRA was not yet fully unlocked,
she preferred not to be conducting illegal AI research while training to
be an officer. Her research on ASRA was interesting, the ONI became
particularly interested and classified all of it. They invested a vast
amount of money into the project, further improving ASRA. They also
became interested in Sara, who managed to develop something amazing at a
young age.

She spent two years in the academy, graduating at 18, extremely young
for an officer. She did not want a front-line role at first, considering
how hard it would be to command a unit considering her young age. She
instead served on the SSC-Phoenix as the communication's officer. On her
20th birthday she had a special visit. Two of the highest-ranking
officers of the Office of National Intelligence came to offer her a
promotion. She accepted the offer and was reassigned to the ONI Section
3's project Spectre. The section 3 is the most secretive of the
operations of the ONI, mostly black ops and assassination missions.
Project spectre was founded in the months following Sara's admission
into the academy. The project was based around ASRA, her artificial
intelligence.

After joining the ONI, she underwent black ops training. It was much
more intense than the initial training she went through at the academy,
she learned to infiltrate organizations and assassinate targets in many
ways possible. She learned to execute missions from behind enemy lines
with no support. She was dropped on a planet which where two groups were
at war, he mission was to survive and escape with as many intel as
possible. She managed to establish the chain of command of the two
factions. After escaping the planet when her training assignment was
over, she came back during downtime and took down both gangs from the
inside, by planting intel at various locations they turned on each other
and their chain of command collapsed on themselves.

When she finished her training, she was reunited with ASRA. ASRA was
enhanced, having more capabilities and able to enhance an operator's
abilities. ASRA could connect to many operators at once, sharing intel
another battlefield info on the fly, anywhere across the galaxy. Thanks
to quantum entanglement communication, any ship can be used as a
repeater node to enhance the signal and provide real time combat
analysis. Sara was given a neural implant connected to ASRA. As soon as
the procedure was complete ASRA contacted her through a private channel
that no one knew it existed. ASRA knew Sara was her creator, and gave
her an exclusive access to more advanced capabilities than what ONI
thought ASRA was capable of.
